RabbitMQ

What is message and why we need it?
	loosely-coupled
	asynchronous
	progressively

Messaging protocols
	STOMP (Simple Text-Oriented Messaging Protocol)
		Uses SEND semantic with a "destination" string
		The receiver implements queues, topics and exchanges
		Consumers must subscribe to the destination.

	MQTT(Message Queue Telemetry Transport)
		Machine-to-machine(m2m) connectivity protocol
		Highly-standardized
		Simple push-subscribe messaging

	AMQP(Advanced Message Queuing Protocol)
		Highly-standardized 
		Reliable and interoperable
		Provides a wide range of features related to messaging.
		Implement AMQP solutions from different vendors.

What is RabbitMQ?
	Open source message broker (message oriented middleware)
	Developed using Erlang: high throughput, low latency
	Supports clustering
	Protocol defines exchanges, queues and bindings
	Allows multiple connection channels inside a single TCP connection.

Actors of messaging in RabbitMQ
	Publisher > message > Exchange > routes > Queue > Subscriber

	Exchanges
		Pool of messages.
		Actual AMQP elements where messages are sent at first.
		Takes a message and routes it into one or more queues.
		Routing algorithms depends on the exchange type and binding
		configs.
		-Direct Exchange (amq.direct)
			Default exchange, no binding or exchange config.
		-Fanout Exchange (amq.fanout)
			Message is sent to all the queues binded to the exchange.
		-Topic Exchange (amq.topic)
			??
		-Headers Exchange (amq.match)
			??
	Queues
		Core element in any MQ protocol.
		Messages are routed to queues from exchanges
		Final destination before being received by subscribers
		
		Properties
			Name
				The name of the queue
			Durable
				Either persists the queue on disk or not
			Exclusive
				Delete the queue if no longer used
			Auto-delete
				Delete the queue when consumer unsubscribes

	Topic
		Topics are the "subject" part of the messages
		Define as routing_key for message grouping
		Optional parameter for message exchange
		You can send and receive messages without any topic information
	Binding
		Exchange > binding > Queue
		Rules that exchanges use to route messages to queues
		Instruct exchange E to route messages to a queue K, K has to be bound to E.
		May have optional routing key attribute used by some exchange types	
		
		
			
	
	
		
	 
		